## `notes` 

Notes and comments from group discussions.

## Draft of Design

Aim: The primary aim of the proposed project is to understand whether the impact of sleep on generalization of learned affective cues depends on the valence and arousal of the cues. The secondary aim of the project is to determine whether the degree of generalization of different affective cues overnight is associated with trait-level anxiety and emotion regulation style.
 
Design: Using an adult sample from Amazon Mechanical Turk, we plan to implement a two-stage study. In the first stage, participants will be conditioned to associate three auditory cues with monetary rewards, losses, or neither, then tested to determine how much they generalized the three auditory cues to other foil cues. All rewards and losses will be incentive compatible, so that payment actually reflects the amount earned by the end of the tasks. Following a 12-hour break, participants will then complete a second test of generalization. Participants in the sleep group will complete the first stage between 8:00 to 10:00 PM and the second stage between 8:00 to 10:00 AM so that their 12-hour break includes sleep, while participants in the wake group will complete the first stage between 8:00 to 10:00 AM and the second stage between 8:00 to 10:00 PM so that their 12-hour break includes only wake.
See Figure 1 for a schematic of the research design. In the first stage, we will initially use a staircasing procedure to find the “just noticeable difference” threshold between auditory frequencies for each participant. Then participants will complete the conditioning acquisition phase. Each trial in this phase consists of four steps. First, participants are told that they need to prepare for each main trial with an attention check by clicking on the locations where a dot appears. First, they will click a center fixation cross (Step 1). Next, a dot will appear in one of three different areas of the screen, which participants will click (Step 2). Unbeknownst to the participants, each third of the screen corresponds with the conditioned stimulus value of that trial (either monetary reward, loss, or neither). Because participants will be explained that the dot clicking is an attention check, this stage represents incidental conditioning of location context. Next, participants begin what they are told is the learning phase of the trial, where they hear an auditory tone of either 300, 500, or 700 Hz and are presented with two buttons on the screen (Step 3). This paradigm Schechtman, Laufer, and Paz (2010). Participants expect to hear tones and are told that two particular tones are associated with winning or losing money. They are told that if they press one button as fast as possible after one of the tones, they will receive additional money. However, if they do not press the other button after another of the tones, they will lose money. The buttons and tones of 300 and 700 Hz are counterbalanced between participants to be associated with either reward or loss; 500 Hz is always associated with neither reward nor loss, meaning that the neutral outcome is not tied to button presses. After making a button press, a screen appears (Step 4) telling participants whether they won or lost money. We will also use Schechtman et al.’s (2010) reinforcement schedule: 24% instrumental loss, 24% instrumental reward, 10% Pavlovian loss (tone elicits loss regardless of button presses), 10% Pavlovian reward (tone elicits reward regardless of button presses), and 32% neutral. Participants complete 100 trials of the incidental location learning followed by tone learning.
Next, participants will be tested on tone generalization for 84 trials. This stage consists of two steps. First, participants are told that they will hear a variety of tones that include the tones they just learned, and they should press the associated button if they hear either of the trained reward/loss tones. They should press a middle button if the tone is different from the trained tones. Participants are told they will gain money for correct button presses, but lose money for non-responses. During this generalization test step (Step 5), participants will hear 14% reward-associated tone, 14% loss-associated tone, 14% control tones consisting of neutral and distant tones (80, 100, 120, 480, 500, 520, 880, 900, and 920 Hz), and 58% tones close to the original 300 and 500 Hz (100, 60, 20, and 5 Hz above and below the learned tones, as well as 3, 4, and 5 times the “just noticeable differences” above and below the learned tones). After each of their guesses, participants will rate the affective valence and arousal they feel in response to the tone using the Self-Assessment Manikin (Bradley & Lang, 1994). Participants will not receive any feedback about whether their generalizations were correct. For a measure of generalization, we will calculate the percent of trials identified as the original enforced tone, as well as the response rate per Hz for each of the reward, loss, and neutral tones. In addition, incidental learning will be tested following each generalization trial by asking participants to click one of two dots on the screen as an attention check. Each of the dots will be located in an area of the screen associated with tones, such that participants will be choosing between reward and neutral, or between loss and neutral. We will measure the amount of incidental generalization by examining participants’ reaction time to click the dot and their mouse trajectory to determine whether participants tend to gravitate toward the dot that associated with reward.
The learning acquisition and generalization testing stages will occur in a cycle three times to avoid extinction effects. Finally, following the 12-hour break containing either wake or sleep, participants will complete another generalization test consisting of more trials with learned and novel tones, again with each trial followed by an incidental learning test where participants click one of two dots. Finally, at the end of the second phase, participants will fill out self-report questionnaires about their habitual sleep patterns, emotional reactivity, anxiety, and frequency of emotion regulation. Participants will be paid roughly 1/3 the full amount at the end of the first phase in an incentive-compatible manner that matches their task performance, and then paid the full amount at the end of the 12-hour break.
 
Hypotheses: 
We hypothesize that generalization of tones will be improved over a period of sleep relative to a period of wake, regardless of whether the tone was associated with reward, loss, or neutral. Second, we hypothesize that, between participants, self-reported ratings of arousal as well as valence will predict the degree of generalization after a period of sleep, such that the greatest amount of generalization will occur for participants who experienced the tones as high arousal negative, followed by high arousal positive, then low arousal negative, then low arousal positive, then neutral. Third, we hypothesize that participants’ generalization scores for the loss-associated tones will also report experiencing greater emotional reactivity, greater trait anxiety, and poorer trait emotion regulation. Finally, we hypothesize that the degree of incidental learning will depend on affective valence, such that greater incidental learning will occur for loss-associated locations than for reward-associated or neutral-associated locations. 


## Notes 10/23/18 meeting:

Hypothesis AFTER ADDING A THIRD BUTTON:
Valence-specific: neg has least generalization (feature sharpening), pos has most, and neut in middle
Arousal-specific: neg and pos higher error (more generalization) than neutral
If we still saw neutral as greatest generalization, and arousal isn’t a predict → what would that mean? 

Future design ideas:
Find JND
Train acquisition
See whether perceptually JND 

Future design ideas:
Spatial grid of valence by arousal - have people click between each generalization test trial

Future design ideas:
Mood induction - picture before each tone
    = processing framework
Block of pics of cats
Block of terrible pictures
Generalize less for neg than for pos blocks
Expect less generalization when put them in an incongruent mood state
